---
layout: module
title: Modulo 1&#58; Creando un Projecto en Cordova 
---
## Pasos

1. Asegurese que tiene una version actualizada de [Node.js](http://nodejs.org/) instalada en su sistema.

1. Abra una Terminal (Mac) o una Ventana de Comandos (Windows), y escribalo el siguiente comando para instalar Cordova CLI:

  ```
  npm install -g cordova
  ```

  o en la Mac:

  ```
  sudo npm install -g cordova
  ```

  Si ya tiene Cordova instalado en su computadora, asegurese de actualizar a la ultima version:

  ````
  npm update -g cordova
  ````

  o

  ````
  sudo npm update -g cordova
  ````

1. Desplacese (cd) al directorio donde almacena sus proyectos en el sistema de archivos.

1. Usando el Cordova CLI, crear un projecto Cordova llamado **Workshop** en un directorio llamado **workshop**:

  ```
  cordova create workshop com.yourname.workshop Workshop
  ```

1. Desplacese al directorio del proyecto:

  ```
  cd workshop
  ```

1. Agregue soporte para la plataforma iOS (opcional)

    > To be able to build for the iOS platform, the iOS SDK must be installed on your system. If it's not, 
    you can skip this step and add support for another platform, or simply run the tutorial application in your 
    browser.

    1. Asegurese que el iOS SDK se encuentra disponible en su sistema.
    2. En la linea de comandos, asegurese que esta en el directorio **workshop** y escriba:

        ```
        cordova platforms add ios
        ```
        
1. Agregue soporte para la plataforma Android (opcional)
    > To be able to build for the Android platform, the Android SDK must be installed on your system. If it's not, 
    you can skip this step and add support for another platform, or simply run the tutorial application in your browser.
    1. Make sure the Android SDK and the ant build tool are available on your system. The Android SDK is available 
    [here](http://developer.android.com/sdk). Both the **android** and **ant** tools must be available in your path.
    2. On the command line, make sure you are in the **workshop** directory and type:

        ```
        cordova platforms add android
        ```

1. Make sure you are in the **workshop** directory, and add basic plugins to your projects:

  ```
  cordova plugin add org.apache.cordova.device
  cordova plugin add org.apache.cordova.console
  ```

1. Examine the directory structure under workshop.
    - The **www** folder is where you will code your HTML / JavaScript application. Open the index.html file in a 
    browser to see the default application created by the Cordova CLI.
    - The **platforms** folder is where Cordova will build your application for different platforms (iOS, Android, 
    etc). The contents of this folder will be automatically generated by the Cordova CLI, 
    and you should never edit code in that directory.
    - Plugins are installed in the **plugins** directory.
    - Application parameters (name, author, etc) are stored in **config.xml**. 


<div class="row" style="margin-top:40px;">
<div class="col-sm-12">
<a href="index.html" class="btn btn-default"><i class="glyphicon glyphicon-chevron-left"></i> Previous</a>
<a href="build-cordova-project.html" class="btn btn-default pull-right">Next <i class="glyphicon
glyphicon-chevron-right"></i></a>
</div>
</div>
